= FakeNetLdap

FakeNetLdap is a helper for faking LDAP sarches made via the net-ldap library.
It works at a global level, without requiring modification of code or writing
of extensive stubs.


== FEATURES/PROBLEMS:

It is pretty limited in what it can do.

If it is used, all calls to bind, auth, and search are intercepted and not passed on
to the net-ldap library.

Queries must be made using Net::LDAP search method.

Responses to queries must be registered otherwise a
FakeNetLdap::ConnectionNotAllowed exception is raised.

The registered responses are yielded to a block passed to the search method.

== EXAMPLES:

Start by requiring FakeNetLdap:

  require 'rubygems'
  require 'fake_net_ldap'

=== Registering users for binding

  FakeNetLdap.register_user(:username => "fred", :password => "secret")

  connection = Net::LDAP.new
  connection.auth("fred", "secret")
  connection.bind                   # returns true
  connection.auth("fred", "forgotten")
  connection.bind                   # returns false

=== Registering basic hash responses to searches

  For situations where you want to fake a single response to the search

  user_filter = Net::LDAP::Filter.eq('uid', 'some-user')
  FakeNetLdap.register_query(user_filter, {"name" => "Fred Blogs"})

  connection = Net::LDAP.new
  results = []
  connection.search(:filter=> user_filter) { |r| results << r }
  puts results.inspect            # => [{"name" => "Fred Blogs"}]

=== Registering a response to unregistered queries

  To provide a default response to any queries that have not been registered
  use:

  FakeNetLdap.clear_query_registrations
  FakeNetLdap.register_query(:unregistered_query, [{"name" => "Fred Blogs"}, {"name" => "John Smith"}])

  unregistered_filter = Net::LDAP::Filter.eq('uid', 'some-user')
  connection = Net::LDAP.new
  results = []
  connection.search(:filter=> unregistered_filter) { |r| results << r }
  puts results.inspect            # => [{"name" => "Fred Blogs"}, {"name" => "John Smith"}]

== REQUIREMENTS:

net-ldap

== INSTALL:

gem install fake_net_ldap

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2009 FIXME full name

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

